well let's find out what's happening on
the ground in Gaza now hanni Mahmud is
in Han Unis in southern Gaza hany so are
people in Gaza hopeful that the
ceasefire could be
extended yes absolutely people are in
fact are looking into uh uh seeing this
ceasefire extended into more than just 4
days they're looking more into a few
more days just to give them an
opportunity uh to deal with the sheer
amount of destruction of their life as
as they know it uh in fact a lot of
people here in the southern part
particularly evacuees when we talked to
them about the the reaction to cesa how
they feel about it uh there there there
there was a pattern among all the the
conversation that we had that people
think this deal is not a win because
they were in fact looking for more more
of a permanant uh ceasefire yet uh
people are taking this uh uh opportunity
to uh of the ceasefire to to resupply to
get their basic necessities and to
provide for their to provide for their
families of of what they need of of
basic supplies of foods and and and and
water it's also an opportunity for the
vast majority who are still surrounded
uh by destruction blood and and and dead
bodies of relatives and and family
members to grieve properly and and to
pay the respect and offer the the proper
funeral procession for those who are
still uh for those who are still uh
trapped under under the rubble there is
a a a a unanimous agreement among people
that as long as people who evacuated to
the southern part are unable to go to
the northern part of God to see their
homes to embrace their their relatives
and loved one they look at it as an
incomplete and unfair uh ceasefire what
they are hoping if this ceasefire gets
extended and they already talks about
this between uh Israel and and and Hamas
about extending the possibility of
ceasefire and exchange of 10 hostages
every day uh in exchange of releasing 10
captives or hostage every day there will
be a SE this ceasefire will be extended
but there are actually the four days
today is the fourth day of the ceasefire
just an hour into the fourth day of the
ceasefire there are new shocking details
uh coming from Gaza since the beginning
of the bombing we're talking about in
terms of new totals uh 15,000 have been
killed 38,000 been injured and we're
looking at a shocking number of missing
people 7,000
unaccounted uh uh for most to presume uh
dead and buried under collapsed building
there's also a warning coming from the
wh and those who are in the medical
field the the smell of decomposed
bodies in the northern part in Gaza City
is everywhere and a threatening of the
spread of infectious diseases which
which confirmed is the idea that we need
more extension more days of this Fe fire
so people can deal with these uh these
problems as a result of the ongoing
bombing and Hy just briefly in terms of
the ceasefire deal what's the latest on
those Aid trucks coming into Gaza
then
yes well so far Aid humanitarian Aid
have been uh delivered to the northern
part in Gaza City and we know the past
the the the first two days of the
ceasefire there
was some difficulties and that led to
the delay of the release of the second
batch of of the of of captives in Gaza
because that's one of the issues that
were talked about and and and Hamas made
it a clear unless unless those
humanitarian uh Aid trucks uh do not get
to the northern part they won't continue
with the with releasing the rest of the
uh of the captives but uh again there is
there the the issue was resolv more AED
trucks including medical supplies Food
Supplies uh water uh clean water for
drinking uh reach uh areas most hard HED
areas in the northern part and Gaza City
is still the the how people react to
this the massive need of of humanitarian
Aid and supplies is not is is more than
what has being provided what people are
looking at a continuous line of
humanitarian Aid to save people we
already talked about and based on a
statement from the United Nations
official people are hungry in the
northern part and Gaza there's an
imminent starvation the The Who warn of
of a spread of infectious disease
because of lack of medical supplies and
sprad of illness so we need a a
continuous line uh to to help people
survive the catastrophe of of the uh the
mass bombardment of the Gaza Strip all
right hany Mahmud live for us there in
Khan unit in southern Gaza hany thank
you